Tooth Surfaces
Facial Surface**:
This is the outermost surface of the tooth that is oriented towards the face.
It is divided into two parts: the **labial surface**, which is the part closest
to the lips, and the **buccal surface**, which is situated adjacent to the cheeks.
This surface is important for both aesthetics and function, as it is
the part of the tooth that is visible when a person smiles.
Lingual Surface**:
The lingual surface refers to the inner surface of the teeth that faces the tongue.
It plays a crucial role in speech and swallowing, as well as
in maintaining proper oral hygiene, since it can accumulate plaque and food
debris.
Masticatory Surface**:
This is the surface of the tooth that comes into contact with opposing teeth during biting and chewing.
For the anterior teeth (incisors and canines), this surface is known as
the **incisal surface**, which has a sharp edge to effectively cut food.
For the posterior teeth (premolars and molars), the surface is called the
**occlusal surface**, which is flat and broad, designed to crush and grind
food.
Mesial Surface**:
The mesial surface is the side of the tooth that is closest to the midline of the
dental arch, which is an imaginary line that divides the left and right sides of the mouth.
This surface is significant for proper tooth alignment and spacing, contributing to overall dental health.
Distal Surface**:
Conversely, the distal surface is the side of the tooth that is farthest from the midline of the mouth.
This surface can often be more difficult to clean, making it important to
pay attention to during oral hygiene practices to prevent decay and gum disease.